---
title: "Hope (2013)"
date: "2021-03-07"
---

So, _Hope_ is a movie about a family's struggle to heal after their eight year old daughter suffers a brutal assault and rape. I found out after finishing the film that it's actually based on an case in South Korea in 2005.

I don't care for the excess melodrama that usually comes from Korean shows, but this movie avoided all of that. Of course there was crying and howling, of course. The situation is insane. The deep red teeth marks on her right cheek is a nightmarish image I won't forget anytime soon. It warrants it. But they didn't spend 10 minutes where the characters fall over each other crying their brains out.

The way this film goes about scenes reminds me of Hirokazu Kore-eda's _Shoplifters_ (2018). The scenes are efficient but powerful, and carefully selected to highlight aspects of the situation that you wouldn't normally think of. The writing goes beyond the stereotypes and cliches. It's masterful.

---

I couldn't stop thinking about this film for days after finishing it. I looked into the actual case for more details, but just found more shock with South Korea's laws. Apparently you can get away with a lot while drunk, and criminal history doesn't seem to play a part in deciding punishment. The dude only got 12 years after a history of cases, one of which he terrorized an old woman to death! It doesn't stop there. As of 2020, he's been released and HE WENT BACK TO LIVE WITH HIS WIFE IN THE TOWN THREE STREETS AWAY FROM THE FAMILY. Yes, he actually has a wife that thinks he's a saint. What the _absolute fuck_. The father said he'd _pay_ the guy to move away. Sigh.

There were also criticisms on the existence of the movie in the first place, for capitalizing on
the incident. I do think that if they donated a portion of the profit to the family, that'd be ideal, but I think the movie has a right to exist. If not simply for the reason any art should exist--simply because it can--but because the movie does such a great job at showing how it's possible to heal from even from something so horrific and that it's worth moving on and living.

I did find that the movie forces you to mentally link an eight year old and sex, something that normal people don't ever do. For a brief period, I saw young girls differently after this movie. It was terrifying.
